I'm Anderson Cooper, live in Tel Aviv.
Tonight,
a new CNN forensic analysis confirms that
the deadly blast at the hospital complex
in Gaza did not come from Israel.
Joining me now is Jeremy Diamond in
Ashkelon.
So, Jeremy, what do you know
Well, Anderson, our investigations
team has conducted a really thorough
analysis using dozens of videos
taken from social media,
but also live broadcast and footage
filmed by a freelance journalist
working for CNN inside the Gaza Strip.
In addition
to that, their satellite imagery.
And they also spoke
with several explosives
and other military experts
who analyze these very images
and CNN's analysis
effectively suggests that this blast
at this hospital inside the Gaza
Strip was caused by a rocket launched
from Gaza, a rocket
that appears to have broken up midair.
And then at least part of that rocket
fell down on that parking lot
outside the hospital,
causing the explosion
that has killed
hundreds of people over there.
Now, these weapons and explosives
that explosives experts who CNN spoke
with, they all agree
that this is the most likely scenario.
Now, at the same time, a definitive
conclusion on this simply can't be reached
without recovering physical evidence
from the site, which is very difficult
given the limited access
that journalists have to the Gaza Strip
and also the fact that that territory
is indeed controlled by Hamas.
Now, I want to take you through two key
moments here, because one of them is from
this live broadcast
that was being broadcast on Al Jazeera,
where you can see the rockets
that were being fired.
Around the same time
as this blast occurred,
one of those rockets
appears to burn out in the sky
before crashing into the area
where the hospital is.
The second piece of evidence,
Anderson, is the crater and this is a key
piece of evidence that the Israeli Defense
Forces have also pointed to as
they tried to make the initial claim
that this was not them,
that this was caused by a rocket fired
by Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
The crater that was caused by this
explosion was three by three feet wide,
about one foot deep.
And all of the experts that CNN spoke
to agreed that this is not consistent
with the kind of crater
that you would see from a bomb
that would be dropped from an aircraft.
And they also said
that it is not consistent with any kind of
artillery fire on that kind of a position.
Now, all of this doesn't change
the fact that Palestinian officials
continue to insist
that Israel is responsible for the strike.
Israel, of course, denies that and has
pointed to this very same rocket scenario.
What it also doesn't change is the anger,
the eruption of anger
that this hospital blast has caused
in the Arab world, in the Middle East.
We have watched these protests
over the last couple of days at U.S.
embassies, at Israeli embassies
in the region.
And ultimately,
you know, the majority of these this
this hospital blast has really become
quite a touch point, Anderson.
And I don't think
that that is going to change
despite this latest analysis, Anderson.